xlii mraonuenou.

not to employ more forcible words, more than sixty
years before the Battle of the standard, at which
Aelred describes him as achieving a memorabis renown.
It is an utter impossibility‚ on the face of it, and it
effectually discredits the statement of the Genealogy.
But when we try ω pass beyond merely negative
allegatione, such as this, we do not find much to
sdvance in addition to what is said by Aelred. Brave,
able, fomseeing, prudent, wisc, good, and eager to do
good—we see that he was all this and more; but as
to particulare of his parentage, up-bringing, training,
service, or as to the way in which he became enfeoffed
at all, and much more so largely enfeoffed, who was the
donor, or to whom he was successor, only a few hints
can be found of such a nature as to suggest that perhaps
inquiry might be rewarded by something in the way of
discovery or acquisition. We undoubtedly find him the
occupant of large estatem but there is a something, so
to speak, elusory, almost verging on the mysterious, iu
the very mention of these estates. He must, like the
Brus, like more than one or two of the Barons named in
connection with some or other of the grants recorded in
the present Chartulary, have been lord of manors by the
score. And yet when we try to realise the extent and
the locale of these abounding lands and territories‚ we
find ourselves baffled almost at the outset. We know
that he held lande and lordships in Northumberland
and in Bedfordshire, that Helmsley, Bsssdale, Kirkham,
with Westow, Whitwell, Thixendale, Garton, and with
those indefinitely localised places, Hwersletorp and
Linton, were his3 we infer, with a precision amounting

