xxiv iunonem-1011.

the other four during the Grantor's lifetime, failing
which, a certainty after his death In the second or
final deed the four previously reserved carucatas are
seen to have been bestowed, and by the still living
Grantor of t-he first charter.

We are now in a position to notice, and with some
attentive scrutiny, the eyrograph or agreement between
the Abbey and the Priory. And, in the first place, I
would draw attention to the terms employed in speak-
ing of what the Priory was to cede at Thixendale.
The words are “ et quatuor carucatas terrae in Sextendals,
quas advocatus noster adhuc tenet in manu sua.” This
last expression is entirely decisive as to the relative
date of the document in question. Mr. Walbran writes,
“There is no date to this very singular document, but
some internal evidence appears to refer it to an early
period in the thirteenth century,” while he also defines
“ advocatus noster '’ as the “ common patron of the two
houses, Lord de Ros, who, some people probably sus-
pected, looked upon sweet Kirkham's lawn as a kind of
Naboth’s vineyard from his dreary moorland eastle at
Helmsley.’'

No one, I think, who takes the trouble to collate the
passage just cited from the cyrograph of exchange with
the contrasted extracts from the two Fundationes will be
disposed to indorse Mr. Walbran's views, either as to
the identity of the common patron, his motive, or the
date of the “singular document ” itself. No one save
Walter Espec himself can fill the character of “advo-
catus noster ’' under the circumstances alleged, and the
date of the deed must not only lie within his lifetime,

